I will now show you a demo of the pod security policies.
In the kubernetes course, get to the post tree.
There is a doc tree pod security policies.
In here, there is a ReadMe, Pod Security Setup,
that you can follow to use for either Minikube or Kops.
In case of Minikube, we need to create this
.minikube/files/etc/kubernetes/addons directory
and then copy this initial-psp.yaml as an addon
so that it will be launched at boot.
And then we can start minikube with extra-config
and here we say apiserver.enable-admission-plugins
and all these plugins that are enabled by default
plus the PodSecurityPolicy.
This is for Minikube, I will be using Kops.
For Kops, we do a very similar thing.
We do the kubeAPIServer appendAdmissionPlugins
PodSecurityPolicy so it will just append this
to the default list, and the default list is
actually all these admission plugins.
So in Kops it's a bit easier.
But you also don't need to copy this initial-psp.yaml
because Kops will create itself an initial
PodSecurityPolicy.
Because you need the PodSecurityPolicy
by default for the system processes.
So in the case of Minikube, we need to create this ourselves
and in case of Kops, it will do that for us.
So let's start with Kops.
So I'm gonna create a new cluster,
same command as you've been using earlier
and then I'm going to edit my cluster.
Kops edit cluster, the cluster name and then the state.
And then I have a specification here
and, from the ReadMe, I'm just going to paste this.
So make sure that the kubeAPIServer
has the same indentation as api,
and then is going to do appendAdmissionPlugins
PodSecurityPolicy.
I'm going to save this, and then I'll be able to do
kops update cluster, minus minus yes, and my state,
and this will then launch the cluster.
We'll take five to 10 minutes which gives us time
to go over these yaml files.
So now the cluster is launched, wait a couple of minutes,
and then lets have a look what's in this directory.
I already went over the ReadMe, we have
the initial-psp.yaml, we had the restricted-psp.yaml.
So these have the PodSecurityPolicies,
let's have a look at the initial-psp.
We don't need it for Kops but if you are using Minikube
it's interesting to know and
it's also something that Kops will do for you.
So, it's also interesting to know what Kops will do for you.
Here we have an object of kind: PodSecurityPolicy
and this one is privileged so this one will be
actually the one that will be used for our system processes.
In the specification, we'll then specify
what pods are allowed.
So for the privileged PodSecurityPolicy,
we want to have privileged: true.
Pods can be privileged and also not privileged.
allowPrivilegeEscalation: true,
allow all capabilities, you can run as any userID,
so there is no restriction.
And then we will have a new policy.
The PodSecurityPolicy restricted, and here it will say
that we cannot use privileged pods.
It will not allowPrivilegeEscalation,
it will also define what volumes can be used.
And it also cannot use certain capabilities
like using IP tables and networking and stuff.
We don't want our normal using to be using that.
We also require that the container must run as non-root.
And that's interesting because, I will show you,
if you try to scale a pod as root it will not work.
So also here, supplementalGroups ranges between
one and 65,535 to make sure that we cannot use root.
So basically we also not say when you mount something
use this UID root because it will also be denied.
To make this all work, we are going to use a ClusterRole.
Here we see that the psp:privileged will then have
access to the policy, PodSecurityPolicies, use.
So it will be able to use the privilege group,
the one we just created higher.
So let's make sure that we have in the ClusterRole
that can use this PodSecurityPolicy,
the privileged PodSecurityPolicy.
And then we create a second ClusterRole
and this will be for the restricted PodSecurityPolicy.
And then we combine the ClusterRole
to groups, service accounts, and users.
So here we see then we have two RoleBindings.
A ClusterRoleBinding here and a RoleBinding here.
This one is for the restricted one, so if you are
authenticated, you automatically get
the restricted ClusterRole.
That means that you are authenticated,
it's a default role from now on,
it will only be the restricted one,
you will not be able to use pivileged pods.
But then there's a RoleBinding for the namespace kube-system
if you are in the kube system and you are in the group
system:masters, system:nodes, or you are in
the group system:serviceaccounts:kube-system
then you will get the ClusterRole psp:privileged.
So that's how then the kube system gets more privileges
to then run the privilege pods.
And when we log in as a normal user, we will have
this ClusterRoleBinding which lets us only use
this ClusterRole here which only lets us use
the restricted resource.
And the restricted resource is then defined here,
PodSecurityPolicy restricted.
If you then go to the top, this here, this privileged one,
is defined by kops itself.
So kops will define this privileged one
so we don't really need to define this,
it's only when you are using Minikube.
Minikube currently doesn't do it by itself
so then you need this initial-psp.
So I also split them out, so these restricted
PodSecurityPolicy ClusterRole and ClusterRoleBinding
are in this file, restricted-psp.
So then if you are using kops we can apply
this restricted-psp.yaml.
And also something else that I forgot to mention,
make sure that you are using 1.16.
It's still in alpha right now, but I'm sure it will be
stable when you see this lecture
because a stable version will come out soon.
Only from 1.16, this admission controller is
available by default.
Not enabled by default, but available.
Let's have a look at the PodSecurityPolicies.
Let's first see if I know it is running.
Not yet.
It will have to wait a little bit longer.
Now it is available.
So I'm running version 1.16.2 because I'm using
kops 1.16.
Let's have a look at the PodSecurityPolicies.
Kubectl get PodSecurityPolicy.
So like I said, we have this default one, the kube-system,
which is privileged and is used by kube-system process.
So let's add the restricted-psp,
otherwise we will not even be able to scale anything
because we haven't assigned a PodSecurityPolicy
for the default user.
So we need this restricted-psp.
And then we have two pods, a bad-pod and a good-pod.
Let's have a look at the good-pod.
This is Deployment, simple deployment of an http-echo
surveys that I have, and it will respond with the
hello world text when you go to Port 880.
But that's irrelevant, we are just going to check
whether we can run it or not.
We add securityContext runAsUser and is UID 100.
So it needs to run as this UID.
It's non-root, so this should work.
And if you have look up bad-pod,
then we see here, securityContext
runAsUser 0, and this one should not run because
this one tries to run as root.
So let's try that out.
Kubectl create, let's try first that pods.
Let's have a look.
Get pods.
No pods found.
Let's have a look where it went wrong.
Deployment runs, but the replica set,
well the deployment you can see it is also not ready
but it has been created.
The replica set says there is one desired
but there is nothing running and here we will
actually find the logging.
So if you do kubectl describe replica set,
all of these replica set,
Error creating pods
this pod is forbidden, unable to validate
against any pod security policy, invalid value zero,
running with a UID root is forbidden.
So it actually works, we can not run with the UID root,
let's now try to run with another UID.
Let's try to run the good-pod.
And let's have a look with kubectel get pods.
And then we see container creating, running, so that works.
So the good-pod works, the bad-pod doesn't work,
so we achieved what we wanted.
There's just one little thing I will have to note here,
that is that we had to say here
securityContext runAsUser 100.
If you remove this, it will also not work
even though that in this container we specify
that we are not running as root.
And why is that?
If you run it, it will actually tell it.
kubectl delete good-pod, and then create it again.
I made a mistake here.
I just removed this, ah, I see it already.
This needs to be an arrow right here.
So now it should work.
But is it also created?
No, it says CreateContainerConfigError.
Let's have a look.
Describe pod.
So now it pulls the image, and then when it pulls image,
it's going to check whether it runs as root.
But what do we get here?
Error: the Container has runAsNonRoot and image has
non-numeric user app cannot verify user is non-root.
So I think there is limitation, unfortunately,
that if in the Dockerfile you say user app,
because we are using user app, here in Dockerfile.
I can actually show this to you.
So this is a Dockerfile.
This is the Dockerfile of the http-echo repository.
So then you see at bottom, it will run as user app,
but user app is not a UID, it's actually the name.
And kubernetes cannot see whether app has not a UID zero
because we could easily create the user app with UID zero,
then it would still be an admin user, the root user,
it would just not be called root.
So it's actually wrong that you say user 100
or use the security context to make sure that
kubernetes can see that it is really a non-zero
numeric value.
Just having user app will not work for the security context.
So what I did is, I pulled this container,
logged in, typed ID, to see what is the real ID
of this user app, it has hundreds, and it can use
in the pod security context 100 to
make sure that you can run this pod.
Because otherwise you will then get this kind of error.
It cannot verify user is nonRoot.
So that's also something that you want to take into account
when using this admissionController
and this PodSecurityPolicies.
So that's it for this lecture.
This is quite new as we speak,
but it will definitely become the default in kubernetes
and then when you want to securely run pods,
you'll have to make sure they run as
non-root, non-privileged, and so on so that your
containers are more secure running on your cluster.